docs: clarify how to use the uv plugin (#2413)
canonical/charmcraft: docs/howto/migrate-plugins/charm-to-uv.rst

      my-charm:  # This can be named anything you want
        plugin: uv
        source: .
        build-snaps:
          - astral-uv

Include charm dependencies

> --------------------------

Author: Hmm, yeah. I see what you mean. I'm not 100% sold on "define" though either. Since we use "list" in the text, I've gone with these:
- List the charm's dependencies
- List charm library dependencies

> --------------------------

Reviewer: I think that's an improvement on both your original and JJ's suggestion.

.. code-block:: toml
    :caption: pyproject.toml
    :emphasize-lines: 6-9

    [project]
    name = "my-charm"
    version = "0.0.1"
    requires-python = ">=3.10"

    # Dependencies of the charm code.
    dependencies = [
        "ops>=3,<4",
    ]

If you use ``uv add`` to include dependencies, uv updates the ``dependencies`` key in
``pyproject.toml``.

Include charm library dependencies
----------------------------------

Unlike the Charm plugin, the uv plugin does not install the dependencies for
included charmlibs. If any of the charm libraries used have ``PYDEPS``, these will
need to be added to the charm's dependencies.

To find library dependencies, check each loaded library file for its ``PYDEPS`` by
running the following command at the root of the charm project:

.. code-block:: bash

    find lib -name "*.py" -exec awk '/PYDEPS = \[/,/\]/' {} +

Next, in ``pyproject.toml``, list them in the ``dependencies`` key.

.. code-block:: toml
    :caption: pyproject.toml
    :emphasize-lines: 4-6

    # Dependencies of the charm code and PYDEPS from libraries.
    dependencies = [
        "ops>=3,<4",
        "cosl",
        "pydantic",
        "cryptography",
    ]

> Alternatively, you could list the library dependencies in a

Reviewer: Should we add a hint about using `uv add --group charmlibs <dependency>`?

Reviewer: If JJ is happy with your changed language on the other pieces I'm going to merge today and we can do that in a follow-up PR if you like the suggestion @dwilding

Author: I've included the hint in this PR, since I had another update to make. Hopefully that's OK

      my-charm:  # This can be named anything you want
        plugin: uv
        source: .
        build-snaps:
          - astral-uv

List the charm's dependencies
-----------------------------

If the project directory doesn't already contain a :ref:`pyproject-toml-file`, create
one. Next, list the charm's dependencies in the file's ``dependencies`` key.

.. code-block:: toml
    :caption: pyproject.toml
    :emphasize-lines: 6-9

    [project]
    name = "my-charm"
    version = "0.0.1"
    requires-python = ">=3.10"

    # Dependencies of the charm code.
    dependencies = [
        "ops>=3,<4",
    ]

You can also add dependencies to your project's ``pyproject.toml`` file by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    uv add <dependency>

> List charm library dependencies

Reviewer 2: Sorry for not following this more closely earlier. I have some suggestions for this section following the acceptance of OP070.

-------------------------------

> Unlike the Charm plugin, the uv plugin does not install the dependencies for
> included charmlibs. If any of the charm libraries used have ``PYDEPS``, these will

Reviewer 2: Since regular Python packages will be the way going forward, how about we lead with this? I think this makes it clearer that the rest of the second is concerned with Charmhub-hosted libs.

```suggestion
Charm libraries are distributed either as regular Python packages under the
[charmlibs](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs) namespace, or hosted
on Charmhub. Regular Python package dependencies should be added to your
charm dependencies as above.

Unlike the Charm plugin, the uv plugin does not install the dependencies for
Charmhub-hosted libraries. If any of these charm libraries have ``PYDEPS``, these
```

Author: I think this summary as an intro - I've added it with some small wording changes

need to be added to the charm's dependencies.

To find library dependencies, check each loaded library file for its ``PYDEPS`` by
running the following command at the root of the charm project:

.. code-block:: bash

    find lib -name "*.py" -exec awk '/PYDEPS = \[/,/\]/' {} +

Next, in ``pyproject.toml``, list them in the ``dependencies`` key.

.. code-block:: toml
    :caption: pyproject.toml
    :emphasize-lines: 4-6

    # Dependencies of the charm code and PYDEPS from libraries.
    dependencies = [
        "ops>=3,<4",
        "cosl",
        "pydantic",
        "cryptography",
    ]

Alternatively, you could list the library dependencies in a

> `dependency group <dependency groups_>`_ called ``charmlibs``.

Reviewer 2: What do we think about renaming this dependency group to (e.g.) `pydeps` to avoid ambiguity with the the charm libraries themselves? Particularly with the `charmlibs` namespace and monorepo now existing.

Author: This makes sense to me, but I've held off for now. What do you think @lengau?

.. code-block:: toml
    :caption: pyproject.toml

    [dependency-groups]
    # PYDEPS from libraries that the charm uses.
    charmlibs = [
        "cosl",
        "pydantic",
        "cryptography",
    ]

Library dependencies are runtime dependencies, and dependency groups are generally
intended for development dependencies. However, if the charm uses a lot of library
files, you might find a dependency group helpful for distinguishing the dependencies.

> If the charm uses libraries that are distributed as Python packages, list the libraries
> in ``dependencies``, along with other dependencies of the charm code. You don't need to
> inspect Python packages to find their dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that this advice does not apply to libraries that are distributed as Python packages.
Python packages should just be listed in ``dependencies``. You don't need to do anything
further for their transient dependencies to be properly installed.
```

Author: I've included this too, thanks (going with "transitive dependencies" which I think would be the more usual term?)

Reviewer 2: Perfect, thanks

Lock the dependencies
---------------------

After defining the project's dependencies, make sure that the project directory has a
:ref:`uv-lock-file` by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    uv lock

> 

Author: Great point, I've just added this
